.TH LINXDISC 8 "2006-10-09" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
linxdisc \- The LINX discovery daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B linxdisc [-d] [-c
.I config-file
.B ] [-r
.I retries
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B linxdisc
is the LINX discovery daemon, which automatically detects and creates 
connections (links) to other remote LINX nodes, which also is running
.BR linxdisc "."
The daemon periodically sends advertisements and waits for advertisements
from remote nodes. The period is about 3 seconds. Connections are created
to allowed remote nodes, when advertisements are received.
.br

See the configuration file
.IR linxdisc.conf "(5)"
for filter rules, limiting which interfaces to use and which remote nodes 
to allow. Communication links are only allowed to remote nodes which 
advertise the same LINX network cluster name as configured and with a node 
name fulfilling the configured allow/deny rules. The configured LINX 
cluster name and node name are used in advertisements sent from this node.
The cluster name and node name must be unique.
.br

The advertised node name is the suggested linkname to use for links to the
advertised node. The linkname is used in huntname paths by applications 
in other nodes, when they hunt for LINX endpoints in this node.
.br

linxdisc must be run as root and there can only be one instance of
linxdisc running on each node. When linxdisc catches a SIGHUP, the
configuration will be reread. Use SIGTERM to terminate linxdisc.
When
linxdisc terminates, all connections are automatically destroyed.

The linxdisc protocol is described in detail in the Linx Protocol
document (see http://linx.sourceforge.net).

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Run in debug mode. The program is interactive, not run as a daemon, 
and all progress and activity is logged to standard error. 

.IP "-c config-file"
Use
.I config-file
instead of the default configuration file
.IR /etc/linxdisc.conf .

.SH FILES
.I /etc/linxdisc.conf
.RS
The default configuration file. See
.IR linxdisc.conf "(5)"
for further details.
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I linxdisc
writes all activity and errors to the syslog, unless the -d option was given.
.SH KNOWN BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
linxdisc cannot apply parameters such as timeouts etc when creating links.
Interfaces that are unavailable when starting linxdisc will not be used when
they become available, linxdisc has to be restarted in that case.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), " linx_hunt "(3), " linxdisc.conf "(5)" 

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
