.TH LINX_TYPES.H 3 "2006-09-06" 1.0 "LIBLINX"
.SH NAME
linx_types.h - data types for LINX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linx_types.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
In addition to the definitions below, the
.BR linx_types.h
includes the system headers
.BR <stdint.h> ", "
.BR <stdlib.h>
and
.BR <linux/types.h> "."
.br

This
.BR linx_types.h
header may be included automatically by the 
.BR linx.h
header file. 
.br

The header file contains the following definitions of LINX types and constants:
.TP 7
.B LINX
The LINX handle, returned from
.BR linx_open "(3)."
It is used to access the LINX endpoint with all other LINX API fuctions.

.TP 7
.B LINX_FALSE
defined to 0.

.TP 7
.B LINX_TRUE
defined to 1.

.TP 7
.B LINX_ILLEGAL_ATTREF
defined to ((LINX_OSATTREF)0). It can be returned instead of
a valid LINX_OSATTREF value, e.g. from
.BR linx_attach "(3)."


.TP 7
.B LINX_ILLEGAL_SPID
defined to ((LINX_SPID)0). It can be returned instead of
a valid LINX_SPID value, e.g. from
.BR linx_get_sped "(3)."

.TP 7
.B LINX_NIL
defined to ((union LINX_SIGNAL *) 0). This null pointer value
indicates that a signal pointer no longer points
to any buffer, e.g. after freeing the signal buffer.


.TP 7
.B LINX_OS_ATTACH_SIG
defined to ((LINX_SIGSELECT)252). This is the reserved signal number
of the default attach signal used if the application does
not provide a signal with the 
.BR linx_attach "(3)"
call.

.TP 7
.B LINX_OS_HUNT_SIG
defined to ((LINX_SIGSELECT)251). This is the reserved signal number
of the default hunt signal used if the application does
not provide a signal with the 
.BR linx_hunt "(3)"
call.


.TP 7
.B LINX_OSATTREF
A uint32_t used for attach references.

.TP 7
.B LINX_OSBOOLEAN
An int used for boolean operations.

.TP 7
.B LINX_OSBUFSIZE
An ssize_t used for signal buffer sizes.

.TP 7
.B LINX_OSTIME
A uint32_t used for time in micro-seconds (us).

.TP 7
.B LINX_SIGSELECT
A uint32_t used for signal numbers.

.TP 7
.B LINX_SPID
A uint32_t used for LINX endpoint binary identifiers (also called spid).

.TP 7
.B LINX_SIG_OPT_END
A define used as endmark in the
.I taglist
parameter list, passed in the
.BR linx_send_w_opt "(3)"
call.

.TP 7
.B LINX_SIG_OPT_OOB
A define used for OOB signaling in the 
.I taglist
parameter list, passed in the
.BR linx_send_w_opt "(3)"
call.

.TP 7
.B LINX_SIG_ATTR_OOB
Is an attribute of a received signal that was sent OOB. Defined to 1.

.P
The following LINX definition is not explicitely done in this header file, 
but is used in the LINX API.
.br

.TP 7
.BI "union LINX_SIGNAL"
is an opaque structure, containing any signal buffer of
any size, with a 32-bit signal number of type 
.B LINX_SIGSELECT
in the first four bytes. This signal number can be accessed as
the 
.I sig_no
struct member of the signal buffer. 
The application allocates various sized signal buffers with
.BR linx_alloc "(3), "
which returns a 
.BI "union LINX_SIGNAL *" "."
.br





.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linx_alloc "(3), "
.BR linx_attach "(3), "
.BR linx_get_spid "(3), "
.BR linx_hunt "(3), "
.BR linx_open "(3)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.
.br

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.
.br

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
