.TH LINX_FREE_BUF 3 "2006-07-30" 1.0 "LIBLINX"
.SH NAME
linx_free_buf() - Free a signal buffer owned by a LINX endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linx_types.h>
.br
.B #include <linx.h>
.br

.BI "int linx_free_buf(LINX *" linx ", union LINX_SIGNAL **" sig ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Free a signal buffer, owned by the LINX endpoint, associated
with the 
.I linx
handle. Once the buffer is freed it may not be accessed again.
To be owned by this LINX endpoint, the buffer has either been received 
by or allocated at this endpoint.

.I linx
is the handle to the LINX endpoint, owning the 
.I sig
signal buffer.
.br

.I sig
is the signal buffer. When the call returns, the pointer (*sig)
is set to LINX_NIL to prevent further access.
.br

If
.I sig
is corrupt,
.BR abort "(3)"
is called.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, 0 is returned. The function does not return on error.

.SH "BUGS/LIMITATIONS"
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linx "(7), " 
.BR linx_alloc "(3), "
.BR linx_open "(3), " 
.BR linx_receive "(3), " 
.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.
.br

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.
.br

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
