.TH LINX_GET_NAME 3 "2006-07-30" 1.0 "LIBLINX"
.SH NAME
linx_get_name() - Get the name of another LINX endpoint
.br
linx_free_name() - Free the name returned by
.BR linx_get_name "(3)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linx_types.h>
.br
.B #include <linx.h>
.br

.BI "int linx_get_name(LINX *" linx ", LINX_SPID " spid ", char **" name ");"
.br

.BI "int linx_free_name(LINX *" linx ", char **" name ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Get the full hunt name of the LINX endpoint associated with the
.I
spid
binary identifier (spid). The hunt name is a string which may include
a path of link names if the LINX endpoint is located on a remote node,
e.g. "LinkToA/LinkToB/LinkToC/EndpointName".

.I linx
is the handle of the own LINX endpoint.
.br

.I spid 
is the spid of the LINX endpoint for which the name is requested.
.br

.I name
is a pointer to a hunt name buffer on successful return, otherwise NULL.
Unless name is NULL on return, the name buffer must be freed with
.BR linx_free_name "(3), "
when it is no longer needed.


.br

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, 0 is returned and
.I name
contains a pointer to a buffer containing the huntname. 
The user is responsible for freeing the buffer with 
.BR linx_free_name "(3)."
.br
In case of failure, -1 will be returned by both calls 
.I errno 
will be set. 
.SH ERRORS
.BR EBADF
The
.IR linx
handle refers to an invalid socket descriptor.
.br

.B EINVAL
The name parameter is NULL.
.br

.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory is available.
.br


.SH "BUGS/LIMITATIONS"
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linx "(7), " linx_open "(3), "
.BR malloc "(3), " free "(3)"
.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.
.br

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.
.br

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
