.TH LINX_SIGSIZE 3 "2007-02-09" 1.0 "LIBLINX"
.SH NAME
linx_sigsize() - Get the size of a LINX signal buffer in bytes
.br
linx_set_sigsize() - Set the size of a LINX signal buffer in bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linx_types.h>
.br
.B #include <linx.h>
.br

.BI "LINX_OSBUFSIZE linx_sigsize(LINX *" linx ", union LINX_SIGNAL **" sig ");"
.br

.BI "int linx_set_sigsize(LINX *" linx ", union LINX_SIGNAL **" sig ", LINX_OSBUFSIZE " sigsize ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR linx_sigsize "()" 
gets the size of the signal buffer
.IR sig "." 
The signal buffer must be owned by the LINX endpoint, referred to by 
.I linx
but can either be a received buffer or a buffer, allocated by the
.BR linx_alloc "(3)" 
call on this LINX endpoint. If
.I sig
is corrupt,
.BR abort "(3)"
is called.
.br

.BR linx_set_sigsize "()"
resizes the signal buffer
.I sig
to
.I sigsize 
bytes and returns 0 on success. An error is returned if the size is outside
permitted limits. If the new
.I size
of the signal buffer
.I sig
is smaller than the original size, the data stored in signal buffer
.I sig
is truncated.
.br

.I linx
is the handle to the LINX endpoint, which owns the
.I sig
signal buffer.
.br

.I sigsize
is the new size in bytes of the signal buffer.
.br


.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.I linx_sigsize
returns the size in bytes of the signal buffer.
.I linx_set_sigsize
returns zero on success. If an error occurred, -1 is returned and 
.I errno
is set.
.SH ERRORS

.B EMSGSIZE
.I sigsize
is less than 4.
.br

.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory is available.
.SH "BUGS/LIMITATIONS"
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linx "(7), " linx_alloc "(3), " linx_receive "(3)"
.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.
.br

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.
.br

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
