.TH LINX_GET_STAT 3 "2006-07-30" 1.0 "LIBLINX"
.SH NAME
linx_get_stat() - Get the statistics of a LINX endpoint
.br
linx_free_stat() - Free the statistics struct returned by
.BR linx_get_stat "(3)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linx_types.h>
.br
.B #include <linx_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <linx.h>
.br

.BI "int linx_get_stat(LINX *" linx ", LINX_SPID " spid ", struct linx_info_stat **" stat ");"
.br

.BI "int linx_free_stat(LINX *" linx ", struct linx_info_stat **" stat ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Get the statistics of the LINX endpoint, associated with the local
.I spid
binary identifier if the LINX kernel module is compiled with SOCK_STAT=yes.

.I linx 
is the handle to the LINX endpoint, which is used to retrive the statistics.
.br

.I spid 
is the identifier of the other LINX endpoint, for which the statistics is requested.
.br

.I stat
will on return point to an struct
.I linx_info_stat
buffer contining the statistics. 
Unless returned as NULL, the buffer must be freed by the user with
.BR linx_free_stat "(3), "
when no longer needed. For details on the
.I linx_info_stat
struct see
.BR linx "(7)".
.br

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 if successful, for
.BR linx_get_stat "(3)"
the 
.I stat
will contain a pointer to a buffer, allocated by LINX, containing the statistics. 
The user is responsible for freeing the buffer with 
.BR linx_free_stat "(3)."
.br
In case of failure, -1 will be returned and 
.I errno 
will be set. 
.SH ERRORS
.B ENOSYS
if the LINX kernel module has not been compiled with SOCK_STAT=yes.
.br

.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory is available.
.br

.BR EBADF
The
.IR linx
handle is associated with an invalid socket descriptor.

.SH "BUGS/LIMITATIONS"
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linx "(7), " linx_open "(3)"
.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.
.br

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.
.br

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
