.TH LINX_SIGATTR 3 "2008-04-23" 1.0 "LIBLINX"
.SH NAME
linx_sigattr() - Get an attribute of a LINX signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linx_types.h>
.br
.B #include <linx.h>
.br

.BI "int linx_sigattr(const LINX *" linx ", const union LINX_SIGNAL **" sig ", uint32_t " attr ", void **" value ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR linx_sigattr "(3)"
API function is used to determine what attributes a received signal sig has, due
to a 
.BR linx_send_w_opt "(3)"
LINX API call. The 
.I value
pointer will be set to an attribute specific value. The 
.I linx
parameter is the LINX handle used when receiving the signal. 

.I linx
is the handle to the LINX endpoint, which owns the
.I sig
signal buffer.
.br

.I attr
is the attribute of the
.I sig
signal buffer.
.br

.I value
is the returned value that corresponds to 
.I attr
which in turn is the name of the attribute set on the
.I sig
signal buffer.
.I attr
can have the following values.
.TP
.B LINX_SIG_ATTR_OOB
A signal has the 
.B LINX_SIG_OPT_OOB
attribute with value set to 
.I 1 
if it was sent using the alternative 
.BR linx_send_w_opt "(3)"
with
.BR LINX_SIG_OPT_OOB "."
If the attribute is not set, the returned value is 
.IR ~0 "."

The OOB attribute has no affect on further communication using the signal, it is
kept to make it possible for the receiving LINX endpoint to know if a signal is
OOB or not. If the signal is sent to another LINX endpoint and the OOB attribute
needs to be preserved, the 
.BR linx_send_w_opt "(3)"
call needs to be used for that signaling. If the received OOB signal is sent with 
.BR linx_send "(3)"
 or
.BR linx_send_w_s "(3)"
the OOB attribute is lost and the signal is transmitted as a in band signal.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 if successful. On failure, -1 is returned and 
.I errno
 will be set.
.SH ERRORS
.BR EBADF ", " ENOTSOCK
The LINX endpoint is associated with an invalid socket descriptor.
.SH "BUGS/LIMITATIONS"
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linx "(7), " linx_send_w_opt "(3)"
.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2008, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.
.br

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.
.br

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
