.TH LINX_CLOSE 3 "2006-07-30" 1.0 "LIBLINX"
.SH NAME
linx_close() - Close a LINX endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linx_types.h>
.br
.B #include <linx.h>
.br

.BI "int linx_close(LINX *" linx ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Close a LINX endpoint that was created by a
.BR linx_open "(3)"
call. All resources owned by this LINX endpoint are freed.
When a LINX endpoint is closed, attach signals are sent to
other LINX endpoints that have attached to it using
.BR linx_attach "(3)."
A LINX endpoint will be automatically closed if its owner process exits
without calling
.BR linx_close "(3)"
first.
Note that the LINX socket is not closed until the last reference has been closed.
See
.BR linx_open "(3)"
for more information about forking processes that own LINX endpoints.
.br

.I linx
is the handle of the LINX endpoint to close.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned. On error, -1 is returned and
.I errno
is set.
.SH ERRORS
.B EBADF
The 
.IR linx
handle refers to an invalid socket descriptor.

.SH "BUGS/LIMITATIONS"
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linx_open "(3), "
.BR linx_alloc "(3), "
.BR linx_attach "(3)"
.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.
.br

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.
.br

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
