.TH LINXGWS.CONF 5 "2009-02-24" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
linxgws.conf - configuration file for LINX Gateway Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/linxgws.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION

This file contains configuration variables for the LINX Gateway Server. For some variables default values can be used, but only for those specified later in the follwing sections.If the configuration file doesn't exist it must be created.

The linxgws.conf must be located in the /etc directory.

The variables are set using this semantics: VALUE="value..."

When the  daemon receives a SIGHUP it shuts down all the auxiliary processes
the configuration will be reread. All the variables in the configuration 
file can changed.
All variables must be separated with a newline.


.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.BR GATEWAY_NAME
specifies the name of the LINX Gateway Server . This name will be advertised on the
broadcast UDP port to all clients. There is no default value and the
provisioning of this variable is mandatory.
.P
 Example: GATEWAY_NAME=example_gateway
.br

.br

.TP
.B INTERFACE_NAME
specifies what network interface to use. The interface must be configured with at least one IP address. It can use only one interface. And it will use the first IP address configured on this interface. There is no default value and the provisioning of this variable is mandatory.
.P
 Example: INTERFACE_NAME=eth0
.br


.TP
.B PUBLIC_PORT
specifies the TCP port number on which the LINX Gateway Server will accept 
connection. It mustn't be in the reserved port range. It the Gateway
daemon will not be able to open the port will shutdown automatically.
Make sure the port is not blocked by the firewall. If the variable
is left empty a default value will be used. 
The default value is 
.B
16384 
.P 
 Example: PUBLIC_PORT=35700
.br

.TP
.BR BROADCAST_PORT
specifies the UDP port number on which the LINX Gateway Server  will announce the gateway name and the TCP port on that it accepts connection. If the variable is left empty a default value will be used. 
The default value is 
.B
21768
.P 
 Example: BROADCAST_PORT=21444
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linxgws "(8), "
.BR linxgwcmd "(5)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2009, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
