.TH LINXDISC.CONF 5 "2006-10-09" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
linxdisc.conf - custom settings for linxdisc
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/linxdisc.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION

This file contains configuration variables for the linxdisc daemon. 
For non-configured variables, default values are used.

The linxdisc.conf must be located in the /etc directory, 
unless specified when linxdisc is started.

The variables are set using this semantics: VALUE="value1 value2 ..."

When the linxdisc daemon catches a SIGHUP, the configuration will be reread. 
IFACE, LINX_NETWORK_NAME and NODE_NAME will not be changed during runtime, 
while  ALLOW and DENY will be applied immediately to close disallowed 
connections and when creating new connections. 

.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.BR IFACE
specifies what network interface(s) to use. Only real devices are supported. 
Several interfaces can be specified. e.g. IFACE="eth0 eth1". 
Default is to use all available devices.
.br

.TP
.B LINX_NETWORK_NAME
specifies the name of a LINX cluster. linxdisc only creates LINX communication
links to nodes, advertising the same cluster name.
All nodes must have the linxdisc daemon running.
Default is the cluster name "undefined".
.br


.TP
.B NODE_NAME
specifies a node name to advertise. It is used by other nodes to filter
against the allow/deny filter chains. It is also used as the recommended 
local link name, when linxdisc in a remote node creates LINX communication
links to this node, as a response to the advertisement.
Default node name is the hostname.
Example: NODE_NAME="server1".
.br

.TP
.BR ALLOW
chain. If specified, linxdisc will only accept connections 
to nodes with the specified advertised node names. 
Names are given in a string, separated by spaces.
This variable can be set several times in the configuration file and
the names will be concatenated to one ALLOW chain.
Example: ALLOW="node1 node2".
.br

.TP
.B DENY
chain. NOTE: This setting will not have any effect if ALLOW is set.
If DENY is specified instead of ALLOW, linxdisc will allow LINX connections 
to any node, except those with advertised node names listed here. 
Names are given in a string, separated by spaces.
This variable can be set several times in the configuration file and
the names will be concatenated to one DENY chain.
.br

.TP
.BR PARAM
List of parameters to apply to all links created by linxdisc.
For a description of parameters and allowed values, see linxcfg(1).
This variable can be set several times in this file and the specified
parameters are concatenated to one PARAM chain.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linxdisc "(8)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
