.TH LINXCFG 1 "2010-01-20" 1.5 "LINX"
.SH NAME
linxcfg \- a configuration utility for creating LINX links to other nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B linxcfg [-t <cm>] [-v] <command> [COMMAND PARAMETERS and OPTIONS]

.B linxcfg [-t <cm>] [-v] destroy <linkname> [<link 2>...]

.B linxcfg -h

.B linxcfg help <cm>

.B linxcfg -t <cm> [help]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B linxcfg
is the LINX configuration utility. Depending on the
.I command
given,
.B linxcfg
can destroy or create links using the specified Connection Manager (CM).

.SH OPTIONS

.B linxcfg
has common options to all commands which should be placed
.B before
the actual
.I command

.IP "-h, --help"
Display help and exit.

.IP "-t, --type <cm>"
Specifies
.I cm
as the Connection Manager to use. If this option is not provided,
.I "eth"
will be used as the default CM.

You can use
.B -h
to list all available CMs.

.IP "-v, --verbose"
Verbose mode.

.IP "-c, --cf, --conn-feature <feature[=value]>"
Adds a connection feature. This option can be specified several times.

.IP "-l, --lf, --link-feature <feature[=value]>"
Adds a link feature. This option can be specified several times.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
create PARAMETERS
Creates a connection link to another node. The
.I PARAMETERS
depend on the CM specified, see below for more details.

A remote link cannot be used until also the remote node creates
the other end of the link (a link back to the originating node).
The state is "connecting" until both sides are ready and
communication via the LINX protocol can begin.


.TP
destroy <linkname> [<link2>...]
Destroy the connection link with the name
.I linkname.

.TP
help [<cm>]
Provides help about the given
.I cm
, either specified in
.B -t
or after the
.B help
command.

If no
.I cm
was specified, it will show a list of available CMs.

.SH OPTIONS TO DIFFERENT CONNECTION MANAGERS

.SS Ethernet CM

The
.B Ethernet CM
is specified with the
.I "eth"
keyword, which is actually the default if no other CM was specified.

The
.B create
command takes the following options:

.TP
create <macaddr> <interface> <linkname> [OPTIONAL PARAMETERS]

.TP
macaddr
Specify the remote mac address of the node to connect to, e.g.
0a:1b:2c:3d:4d:5e.

.TP
interface
Specify the Ethernet interface to use. Ex.: eth0.

.TP
linkname
Name of the connection link. This is the link part of the path in a remote
hunt name to LINX endpoints on the other node. It will also be the
name seen in
.I /proc/net/linx/cm/eth/<linkname>

.IP "Optional parameters"

.TP
--window_size=nnn
This is the send/receive window_size, in number of packets on the link,
and may need to be modified to adapt LINX to really slow or really fast
Ethernet performance.
.br
Both the local and remote side negotiate the window size, being the
smallest of the two sizes the selected one.
The default 128 messages should be sufficient in most configurations.
The window size shall always be of a power of 2.
Size 0 means to use the default window size.

.TP
--defer_queue_size=nnn
The defer queue size is in packages, with the size depending on the LINX link.
The defer queue is used on the sender side when the send queue is full.
Every message sent, when the send queue is full, is stored in the defer queue,
until the send queue has room for more messages.
The defer queue size is the maximum number of packages, with messages,
that can be stored in the defer queue before the link is disconnected,
due to lack or resources.
The default value 2048 packages should be sufficient in most systems.
Size 0 means to use the default defer queue size.

.TP
--conn_tmo=nnn
The connect timeout specifies the time, in milliseconds, to wait until a
connection attempt fails and a new attempt is made. Once connected, it is used
as a supervision time-out, i.e. every conn_tmo/3 milliseconds, LINX checks if
any packets from the peer has been received. LINX disconnects the connection
after four consequtive conn_tmo/3 timeout periods without any packets from the
peer. Tmo 0 means to use the default timeout (1000ms).

.TP
--mtu=nnn
The MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) specifies the size in  bytes of the
largets packet that the Ethernet protocol can pass onwards (this excludes the
size of the Ethernet header). If not set the MTU is fetched from the interface.
Typcially a MTU of 1500 bytes is used for Ethernet.

.TP
--attributes=s
The attribute option gives the possibility to assign an arbitrary string to
the link when it is created. This string is included in the new_link signal,
which is sent to all link supervisors. More information on link
supervisors can be found in
.TP
--coreid=nn
The coreid is used in a multicore environment to configure the 
destination coreid.

.BR linx "(7) "
man page.

.SS TCP CM

The TCP CM is specified using the
.I tcp
keyword.

The
.B create
command takes the following parameters:

create <ip> <linkname> [OPTIONAL PARAMETERS]

.TP
ip
The IP address to connect to.

.TP
linkname
Name of the connection link. This is the LINX link part of the path in
a remote hunt name to LINX endpoints on the other node. It will also be the
name seen in
.I /proc/net/linx/cm/tcp/<linkname>

.IP "Optional parameters"

.TP
--live_tmo=<size>
The live_tmo parameter is the time in milliseconds between every heartbeat
that is used to detect if the connection has gone down. The default value is
1000 ms.
.TP
--use_nagle=<bool>
Set to 1 if nagle algorithm shall be used on the socket for the connection.
Default is off.
.TP
--attributes=<s>
The attribute option gives the possibility to assign an arbitrary string to
the link when it is created. This string is included in the new_link signal,
which is sent to all link supervisors.

.SS RIO CM

The RIO CM is specified using the
.I rio
keyword.

The
.B create
command takes the following parameters:

create <local_port> <port> <dev_id> <mbox> <if> <link> [OPTIONAL PARAMETERS]

.TP
local_port
The local RapidIO port to connect to.

.TP
port
The remote RapidIO port to connect to.

.TP
dev_id
The RapidIO device to connect to.

.TP
mbox
The RapidIO mailbox id to use.

.TP
if
The RapidIO interface to use.

.TP
link
Name of the connection link. This is the LINX link part of the path in
a remote hunt name to LINX endpoints on the other node. It will also be the
name seen in
.I /proc/net/linx/rlnh

.IP "Optional parameters"

.TP
--tmo=<tmo>
The tmo parameter is the time in hundreds of milliseconds between
every heartbeat that is used to detect if the connection has gone
down. The default value is 500 ms.
.TP
--mtu=<mtu>
Specifies the MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) in bytes of the largest
that the RIO CM can pass onwards, including the size of the RapidIO
header. If not explicitly given, the MTU is fetched from the RapidIO device.

.SH FILES
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I linxcfg
will display more verbose information to standard out, if the -v option is
specified.
.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
linxcfg create 01:23:a4:4f:b3:ac eth0 link_A

linxcfg destroy link_A

linxcfg -t tcp create 192.168.1.1 link_A

linxcfg -t tcp destroy link_A

linxcfg -t rio create 0 0 0 0 rio0 riolink0 --mtu=128 --tmo=10

linxcfg -t rio destroy riolink0

.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linxstat "(1), "
.BR linxdisc "(8)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2010, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
