.TH GWCMD 1 "2009-02-27" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
linxgwcmd \- Gateway Command tool example
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B linxgwcmd [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Gateway Command tool example, can be used to find and test gateway servers on a 
network.
.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-a <auth>"
Use <auth> as authentication string, which should be in "user:passwd" form

.IP "-b <brc_addr>"
Use <brc_addr> as broadcast string, which should be in "udp://*:<port>" form, 
where <port> should be the port number. Default broadcast string is 
"udp://*:21768"

.IP "-c <name>"
Use <name> as the client's name (default "gw_client")

.IP   "-e[<n>][,<b>]"
Echo test to an OSE Gateway use <n> as number of loops (default 10) and <b> for
number of bytes/chunk (default 4)

.IP "-h"
Print help

.IP "-l[<t>][,<n>]"
List Gateways use <t> as timeout value (default is 5 secs) and <n> for max items
 (default lists all) -l25,1 => look for Gateways in 25 secs and list only the 
first found

.IP   "-p <proc>"    
Hunt for process <proc>

.IP   "-s <url/name>"
Connect to a OSE GateWay server using either the servers url or its name

.SH FILES
None.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
linxgwcmd
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linxgws "(8)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2009, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
