.TH LINXSTAT 1 "2006-07-30" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
linxstat \- display specific information about LINX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B linxstat [-a] [-b] [-f] [-h] [-H] [-q] [-s] [-S] [-t 
.I type
.B ] [-T] [-l
.I length
.B ] [-n
.I hunt_name
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B linxstat
is a utility to display the status of the LINX communication system,
including information about all local and known remote LINX endpoints 
and LINX links to remote nodes. The names, types, status and local 
identifiers are displayed as well as queues, attaches and hunts.
The information is fetched from the LINX kernel module.
The following columns can be output, in addition to a leading 
summary (compare the example):
.br


.I PID
is the id of the process owning the LINX endpoint or LINX link.
As each remote endpoint are represented by a local LINX endpoint
with a local identifier (spid), they are all owned by one 
common local process.
.br

.I spid
is the local LINX binary identifier for the LINX endpoint or LINX link.
.br

.I name
is the huntname of the LINX endpoint or LINX link.
If a name is too long for the column, a "+" sign is displayed
and the tailing part of the name.
.br

.I type
is the type of entry, i.e. 
.IR "local"
for a local LINX endpoint,
.IR "link"
for a LINX link to another node,
.IR "remote"
for a local representation of a remote LINX endpoint,
.IR "zombie"
for a LINX endpoint which has been closed,
.IR "illegal"
if an endpoint structure is illegal.
.IR "unknown"
if linxstat cannot reach the LINX endpoint.
.br

.I state
is the state of the endpoint or link. The main states are 
.IR "running"
not waiting for anything,
.IR "recv"
while waiting to receive signal buffers,
.IR "poll"
while waiting for events with the 
.IR poll "(2)"
or 
.IR select "(2)"
system call,
.IR "unknown"
if linxstat cannot get the state.
.br

.I queue
is the receive queue. This is the number of signal buffers
delivered to the LINX endpoint, but not yet received.
.br

.I attach(from/to)
are the pending attach information. Both the number of attaches to
each LINX endpoint from other endpoints and the number of attaches
from each endpoint to other endpoints are displayed.
.br

.I hunt
are pending hunts owned by each LINX endpoint. 
It also includes pending hunts, sent by others but with this endpoint as sender.
.br

.I tmo
are pending timeouts for each LINX endpoint.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a"
Display more verbose pending attach information.
.IP "-b"
Batch mode, only display the number of open LINX endpoints.
.IP "-f"
Print receive filters.
.IP "-h"
Display a short help message.
.IP "-H"
Display more verbose pending hunt information. 
.IP "-q"
Display more verbose receive queue information.
.IP "-s"
Display less information (simple). Only endpoint-specific information are 
displayed, no summary, no title and no counter columns.
.IP "-S"
If the LINX kernel module has been compiled with per-socket statistics
(SOCK_STAT) then linxstat can display statistics for each socket.
.IP "-t type"
Display only sockets of the specified type.
.IP "-T"
Print pending timeouts.
.IP "-l length"
Specify length of name to be printed, default 18, minimum 5
.IP "-n hunt_name"
Print info only for hunt_name

.SH FILES
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I linxstat
writes all information to standard output.
.SH KNOWN BUGS
linxstat queries are not atomic, the state of the system may change
while linxstat is running.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
This is a displayed list from linxstat.

.nf
 local:5 remote:1 link:1
 pending attach:2
 pending hunt:0
 pending timeout:0
 queued signals:0

  PID spid    name               type   state  queue attach(f/t) hunt tmo
24903 0x10003 linx16             link   -      0     1/0         0    0
24903 0x10004 +16/apitest_server remote -      0     0/0         0    0
24909 0x10001 apitest_client     local  run    0     0/1         0    0
24909 0x10024 +est_attach_parent local  poll   0     1/1         0    0
24909 0x10005 not bound          local  run    0     0/0         0    0
24958 0x10023 +test_attach_child local  recv   0     0/0         0    0
24963 0x10025 linxstat           local  run    0     0/0         0    0
.fi

With -a, more information is displayed after each line with 
pending attaches. Extracts from a table, created by linxstat -a: 

.nf
 local:4 remote:1 link:1
 pending attach:1
 pending hunt:0
 pending timeout:0
 queued signals:0

 PID  spid    name               type  state  queue attach(f/t) hunt tmo
25053 0x10002 linx16             link  -      0     1/0         0    0
        Attach info (from):
          [attref:0x00000400   from:0x00010001 signo:0          size: 0]
25053 0x10003 +16/apitest_server remote  -    0     0/0         0    0
25059 0x10001 apitest_client     local run    0     0/1         0    0
        Attach info (to):
          [attref:0x00000400   to:0x00010001 signo:0          size:   0]
25059 0x10004 not bound          local run    0     0/0         0    0
25059 0x10014 +inx_receive_w_tmo local poll   0     0/0         0    0
25083 0x10015 linxstat           local run    0     0/0         0    0
.fi


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linx_attach "(3), "
.BR linx_hunt "(3), "
.BR linx_open "(3), "
.BR linxdisc "(8), "
.BR linxdisc.conf "(5), "
.BR linxcfg "(1)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006-2011, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
