.TH MKCMCLCON 1 "2010-12-23" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
mkcmclcon \- create LINX Connection Manager Control Layer connections.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkcmclcon [OPTIONS] <connection>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a LINX Connection Manager Control Layer connection to a remote node.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h, --help"
Display help and exit.

.IP "-c, --connection"
What connection to be used for this CMCL connection. The CMCL is commonly used
on top of another LINX Connection Manager. But, this other Connection Manager
can be very thin as the CMCL provides connection handling and supervision.

.IP "-s, --silent"
Silent mode, only error messages are printed to stdout.

.IP "-t, --con_tmo"
Connection timeout is used for supervision of the connection. The CMCL will
send three alive packets during this timeout. If it has not received an alive
packet from the peer upon sending the fourth alive packet, it will consider the
connection as disconnected. Default value is 1000 (ms).

.SH FILES
None.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
Create a CMCL connection between node A and node B. In this example, node A and
node B have created a LINX ethernet connection to each other (ethcm_A and 
ethcm_B).

On node A,
mkcmclcon -c ethcm/ethcm_B node_B

On node B,
mkcmclcon -c ethcm/ethcm_A node_A
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linxcfg "(1), "
.BR linxstat "(1), "
.BR linxdisc "(8), "
.BR mklink "(1), "
.BR mkethcon "(1), "
.BR rmcmclcon "(1)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2010, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
