.TH MKETHCON 1 "2008-08-25" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
mkethcon \- create LINX Ethernet connections.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkethcon [OPTIONS] <connection>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a LINX Ethernet connection to a remote node.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h, --help"
Display help and exit.

.IP "Mandatory options"

.IP "-m, --mac=MAC address"
Specify the remote MAC address of the node to connect to, e.g.
0a:1b:2c:3d:4d:5e.

.IP "-i, --if=interface"
Specify the Ethernet interface to use, e.g. eth0.

.IP "Optional options"

.IP "--window_size=nnn"
This is the send/receive window_size, in number of packets on the link,
and may need to be modified to adapt LINX to really slow or really fast
Ethernet performance.
.br
Both the local and remote side negotiate the window size, being the
smallest of the two sizes the selected one.
The default 128 messages should be sufficient in most configurations.
The window size shall always be of a power of 2.
Size 0 means to use the default window size.

.IP "--defer_queue_size=nnn"
The defer queue size is in packages, with the size depending on the LINX link.
The defer queue is used on the sender side when the send queue is full.
Every message sent, when the send queue is full, is stored in the defer queue,
until the send queue has room for more messages.
The defer queue size is the maximum number of packages, with messages,
that can be stored in the defer queue before the link is disconnected,
due to lack or resources.
The default value 2048 packages should be sufficient in most systems.
Size 0 means to use the default defer queue size.

.IP "--conn_tmo=nnn"
The connect timeout specifies the time, in milliseconds, to wait until a
connection attempt fails and a new attempt is made. Once connected, it is used
as a supervision time-out, i.e. every conn_tmo/3 milliseconds, LINX checks if
any packets from the peer has been received. LINX disconnects the connection
after four consequtive conn_tmo/3 timeout periods without any packets from the
peer. Tmo 0 means to use the default timeout (1000ms).

.IP "--coreid=nn"
The coreid is used in a multicore environment to configure the destination 
coreid.

.IP "--mtu=nnn"
The MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) specifies the size in  bytes of the
largets packet that the Ethernet protocol can pass onwards (this excludes the
size of the Ethernet header). If not set the MTU is fetched from the interface.
Typcially a MTU of 1500 bytes is used for Ethernet.

.SH FILES
None.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
mkethcon --mac=01:23:a4:4f:b3:ac --if=eth0 ethcon_A
mkethcon -m 01:23:a4:4f:b3:ac -i eth0 ethcon_A
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linxcfg "(1), "
.BR linxstat "(1), "
.BR linxdisc "(8), "
.BR mklink "(1), "
.BR rmethcon "(1)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
