.TH MKLINK 1 "2008-08-25" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
mklink \- create LINX links.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mklink [OPTIONS] <link>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a LINX link to a remote node.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h, --help"
Display help and exit.

.IP "-a, --attributes=<attributes>"
Specify an optional cookie that is returned unmodified in
the new_link signal. The new_link signal is sent to link
supervisor(s) when the link is available.

.IP "-c, --connection=<connection>"
Specify the connection(s) that this link should use. This option can
be repeated if a link should use more than one connection.
Note that the connection(s) must be created before they can be assigned
to a link. The connection name is made up of two parts, see example.
The first part identifies the CM and the second part is the name that
was used in the CM specific create command.

.SH FILES
None.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
mkethcon --mac=01:23:a4:4f:b3:ac --if=eth0 ethcon_A
mklink --connection=ethcm/ethcon_A link_A

mkethcon --mac=01:23:a4:4f:b3:ac --if=eth0 ethcon_A
mktcpcon tcpcon_A
mklink -c ethcm/ethcon_A -c tcpcm/tcpcon_A link_A
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linxcfg "(1), "
.BR mkethcon "(1), "
.BR mktcpcon "(1), "
.BR rmlink "(1)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
