.TH MKRIOCON 1 "2008-08-25" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
mkriocon \- create LINX RapidIO connections.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkriocon [OPTIONS] <connection>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a LINX RapidIO connection to a remote node.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h, --help"
Display help and exit.

.IP "Mandatory options"

.IP "-p, --port=<rio port>"
Specify the remote port number of the node to connect to, e.g. 0.

.IP "-l, --local-port=<rio port>"
Specify the local port number to use, e.g. 0.

.IP "-I, --id=<rio device id>"
Specify the RapidIO device id to connect to, e.g. 1.

.IP "-i, --if=<rio device>"
Specify the RapidIO interface to use, e.g. rio0.

.IP "Optional options"

.IP "-t, --tmo=nn"
The connection supervision timeout specifies the time (in hundreds of msec) to
wait until a connection is considered broken. Default is 5 (yielding a timeout
of 500 msec) and should be sufficient in most systems.
Tmo 0 means to use the default timeout.

.IP "-M, --mtu=nnn"
The MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) specifies the size in  bytes of the
largets packet that the RapidIO protocol can pass onwards (this includes the
size of the RapidIO header). If not set the MTU is fetched from the interface.
Typically an MTU of 256 bytes is used for RapidIO.

.SH FILES
None.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
mkriocon --port=0 --local-port=0 --mbox=1 --id=1 --if=rio0 riocon_A
mkriocon -p 0 -l 0 -m 1 -I 1 -i rio0 riocon_A
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linxcfg "(1), "
.BR linxstat "(1), "
.BR mklink "(1), "
.BR rmriocon "(1)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
