.TH MKSHMCON 1 "2008-08-25" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
mkshmcon \- create LINX shared memory connections.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkshmcon [OPTIONS] <connection>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a LINX shared memory connection to a remote node.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h, --help"
Display help and exit.

.IP "-m, --mtu"
The maximum transfer unit option defines the number of bytes
that one slot in a mailbox can hold. This option is also used
as maximum receive unit (i.e. symmetric Rx and Tx areas).

.IP "-s, --silent"
Silent mode, only error messages are printed to stdout.

.IP "-t, --con_tmo"
Connection time-out is used as a supervision time-out, i.e. every
conn_tmo milliseconds, the shared memory CM checks if any packets
from the peer has been received. After two consequtive conn_tmo:s
without any packets from the peer, the connection is disconnected.

.IP "-x, --side"
Swap Tx and Rx area. One side's Tx area is the other side's Rx
area and vice versa. When a connection is setup, the -x option
must be set on one of the sides.

.IP "-n, --slots"
Number of slots per mailbox. This option must be the same on both
sides of a connection.

.IP "-b, --mbox"
Mailbox identifier. Both sides of a connection must use the same
identifier.

.SH FILES
None.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
Create a shared memory connection between CPU A and CPU B. Each
mailbox consists of 16 slots and each slot can hold 120 bytes.
The connection time-out is set to 1 sec, i.e. if no packets has
been received from the peer for 2-3 sec, the connection is
disconnected:

On CPU A,
mkshmcon -t 1000 -b 1 -n 16 -m 120 cpu_b

On CPU B,
mkshmcon -t 1000 -b 1 -n 16 -m 120 -x cpu_a
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linxcfg "(1), "
.BR linxstat "(1), "
.BR linxdisc "(8), "
.BR mklink "(1), "
.BR rmshmcon "(1)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
