.TH MKTCPCON 1 "2010-07-02" 1.0 "LINX"
.SH NAME
mktcpcon \- create LINX TCP/IP connections.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktcpcon [OPTIONS] <connection>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a LINX TCP/IP connection to a remote node.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h, --help"
Display help and exit.

.IP "-i, --ipaddr=<IP address>"
The IP address to connect to, e.g. 192.168.0.12.

.IP "-I, --ipv6addr=<IPv6 address>%<iface>"
The IPv6 address to connect to, e.g. fe80::218:8bff:fe1e:2eef, followed by % as
a delimiter and then the interface the connection should be created on.

.IP "-t, --live_tmo=<size>"
The live_tmo parameter is the time in milliseconds between every heartbeat
that is used to detect if the connection has gone down. The default value is
1000 ms.

.IP "-n, --use_nagle=<bool>"
Set to 1 if nagle algorithm shall be used on the socket for the connection.
Default is off.

.IP "-s, --silent"
Silent mode.

.SH FILES
None.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
mktcpcon --ipaddr=192.168.0.12 tcpcon_A
mktcpcon --ipv6addr=fe80::218:8bff:fe1e:2eef%eth0 tcpcon_A
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linx "(7), "
.BR linxcfg "(1), "
.BR mklink "(1), "
.BR rmtcpcon "(1)"

.SH AUTHOR
Enea LINX team

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Enea Software AB
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Enea Software AB nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
